# Movie-Recommendation-Model-GUI-representation-using-Tkinter

This repository contains a Jupyter notebook that demonstrates various methods for movie recommendations and last runs a Tkinter module to show and use the results of the various methods. 

## Basic Recommendations

1. The first method shows how to get the top 10 movies generally.
2. The second method shows how to get the top 10 movies based on genre.

## Content-Based Recommendations

The third method uses content-based recommendation to give the top 10 similar movies to a particular movie.

## Collaborative Filtering

The fourth method uses collaborative filtering to give recommendations to a user based on their past ratings to some movies. This method uses the SVD Algorithm and XGBoost model to give recommendations.

## Getting Started

1. Clone the repository

```
git clone https://github.com/scanfMyName/Movie-Recommendation-Model-GUI-representation-using-Tkinter
```

2. Install the required packages
 I recommend you to please check the requirements.txt and update the name of the actual library in place of name of its classes e.g. I have written tkinter in place of tk and sklearn in place of scikit-learn . Also now ast is by default available in python.(In my case it is python version 3.11.3 and it is there, you can check for other versions also). If you are getting error in case of downloading surprise try for "scikit-surprise" if also you are getting error like:
"Building wheel for scikit-surprise (setup.py): finished with status 'error'
  Running setup.py clean for scikit-surprise
Failed to build scikit-surprise"
You can try this blog https://stackoverflow.com/questions/65679417/getting-errors-while-installing-surprise-package 

For the database visit this link:https://drive.google.com/drive/u/0/folders/1RiBTdvvjZkuSLIt1ZZDTz9UH7EZLHYX-
```
pip install -r requirements.txt
```

3. Open the Jupyter notebook and run the code

```
jupyter notebook SolutionCode.ipynb
```

##Tkinter

We have used Tkinter to show the and use the different models generated by the above algorithms as described. We have developed differnt LabelfFrame for showing each method and provided the different inputs and uses the above models and shows recommendation results.

## Note

The dataset(dataset folder)is provided here to run the code in the Jupyter notebook. And you need to just change base address of the folder 'datasets' in the jupyter file "SolutionCode.ipynb" as per your machine and then run the code, it should be good to go. 

## Dependencies
* pandas
* numpy
* scikit-learn
* xgboost
* surprise

## Authors
https://github.com/scanfmyname

## Acknowledgments
* Vivek Gupta

If you find any bugs or any error(even if it is too small) please report it as issue, we altogether will solve the issues. 

Also If you find any new thoughts and ideas which we can be implemnted to make it better in this repo, also raised an issue for that, I will be very happy to work on that. Thank you
